Topological manifold with boundary and related properties (part 1) (#1744)
pi-base/data: properties/P000235.md

---
uid: P000235
name: Locally a Euclidean half-space
---

Each point has a neighborhood homeomorphic to an open subset of the closed upper half-space $\mathbb R^n_+$ for some integer $n\ge 0$, where

$\quad\quad\mathbb R^n_+:=\{(x_1,\dots,x_n)\in\mathbb R^n : x_n\ge 0\}$

has the Euclidean subspace topology.
Equivalently, each point has a neighborhood homeomorphic to $\mathbb R^n_+$ for some $n$.
Note that the value of $n$ is allowed to differ between points;
if it does not vary, then the space has the stronger
property {P236}.

In the case $n=0$, the half-space $\mathbb R^0_+$ is considered the same as $\mathbb R^0=\{0\}$;
thus a point having a neighborhood homeomorphic to

> $\mathbb R^0_+$ means it is an isolated point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
thus a point with a neighborhood homeomorphic to
$\mathbb R^0_+$ is an isolated point.
```

> An equivalent condition for points $p\in X$ for which $n>0$ is that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An equivalent condition for non-isolated points $p\in X$ is that
```

one of the following holds:
- $p$ has a neighborhood homeomorphic to $\mathbb R^n;$
- $p$ has a neighborhood homeomorphic to $\mathbb R^n_+$
with $p$ mapped to a point of $\partial\mathbb R^n_+:=\{x\in\mathbb R^n: x_n=0\}$.

*Note*: In all the above, one can equivalently require the neighborhoods to be open.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we really need this? Its a little much text for  only saying trivial things in my opinion

Author: see https://github.com/pi-base/data/pull/1744#discussion_r3095852340.

@GeoffreySangston is this too much?

Author: Note also that many sources do present the definition in this form, separating the two cases (interior points and boundary points).  Which is another reason I added it.

Reviewer: I think it's natural to break the definition up into the cases (i.e. I'd keep this). P236 gets more utility out of this by including definitions for "manifold interior" point and "manifold boundary" point. My apologies if it's already been addressed (I didn't see it just now while clicking through the collapsed conversations) why doesn't P235 do the same?

Author: I was debating with myself about this.  Had it in an earlier draft for P235 then removed it, thinking that P235 allows varying dimension from point to point, which is more removed from the notion of manifold than P236, so mentioning "manifold" could be confusing?

But really, "manifold boundary/interior" is a good intuitive way to talk about the difference.  And we are not saying we have a manifold, just that it's analogous to these notions.  So if you think that's ok, I can add it back.  What do you think?

Reviewer: @prabau I think we should include them here. I'm not thinking of any reason not to at least. A manifold boundary point or interior point locally looks the same as one on a standard manifold with boundary.

Author: Thanks.  Sounds good. I'll add it.
